Update How It Works page (#1077)
gravitational/next: pages/how-it-works/index.mdx

title: "How Teleport Works: Basic Concepts"
headerTitle: How Teleport Works
headerDescription:

>  Teleport provides secure access to SSH servers, Windows servers, Kubernetes clusters, Databases, and Web Applications. Teleport is trivial to setup as a Linux daemon or in a Kubernetes pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Teleport provides secure access to SSH or Windows servers, Windows Desktops, Kubernetes clusters, Databases, and Web Applications. Teleport is trivial to setup as a Linux daemon or in a Kubernetes pod.
```

## The Basics

> Teleport is a certificate authority and an identity-aware, multi-protocol access proxy which implements protocols such as SSH, RDP,  HTTPS, Kubernetes API, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Redis, and others. It is completely transparent to client-side tools and designed to work with everything in today's DevOps ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teleport is a certificate authority and identity-aware, multi-protocol access proxy which implements protocols such as SSH, RDP, HTTPS, Kubernetes API, and a variety of SQL and NoSQL databases. It is completely transparent to client-side tools and designed to work with everything in today's DevOps ecosystem.
```

  </Box>
</Flex>

<br />

> Clients must authenticate with Teleport and receive a client certificate which automatically works for all resources in a cluster, i.e., after authentication, `ssh`, `kubectl`, `psql`, `mysql` and other remote access commands will be configured with the user's identity. Teleport offers a built-in database for user management, but for production use, we recommend integrating it with enterprise SSO based on Okta, Github, Google Apps, Active Directory, and other identity providers.

Reviewer 2: I think this good, I wonder if we should provide internal links to our SSO Docs pages.

Author: Added a link to enterprise SSO.

## How Teleport Cluster Works

The concept of a cluster is the foundation of the Teleport security model.

- Users and servers all must join the same cluster before access can be granted.
- To join a cluster, both users and servers must authenticate and receive certificates.
- The Teleport auth service is the CA of the cluster, which issues certificates
 for both the users and servers with all supported protocols.

This model prevents honeypot attacks and eliminates the issue of trust on first
use. This also allows users to enumerate all servers and other resources that
are currently online.

Teleport clusters can be configured to trust each other. This allows users
from one organization to access designated servers inside of another
organization's cloud or on-premise environment.

## User Experience

Teleport users of [Teleport Desktop](https://goteleport.com/desktop-access/) access simply

> use a web browser to access Windows hosts. 

Reviewer 2: I wonder if should add something like 'RDP in the browser' to hit the right keywords

Teleport users of SSH, Kubernetes, and other command line-based clients, must
authenticate first by executing the `tsh login` command. This command opens a
web browser to authenticate and exits upon successful authentication. This configures
users' CLI environment with short-lived certificates for access.

After that, users will be able to access their SSH servers, Windows servers, Kubernetes clusters, web applications or databases. Teleport is backward compliant with existing

> client tools so users can continue to use `ssh`, `psql`, `mysql` or `kubectl`

Reviewer 2: nit: We also support redis. So we may want to say, these main clients tools + others.  We also support GUI applications for Databases.

  </Box>
</Flex>

<br />
Clients must authenticate with Teleport and receive a client certificate which automatically works for all resources in a cluster, i.e., after authentication, `ssh`, `kubectl`, `psql`, `mysql` and other remote access commands will be configured with the user's identity. Teleport offers a built-in database for user management, but for production use, we recommend integrating it with [enterprise SSO](https://goteleport.com/docs/enterprise/sso/) based on Okta, Github, Google Apps, Active Directory, and other identity providers.

## How Teleport Cluster Works

The concept of a cluster is the foundation of the Teleport security model.

- Users and servers all must join the same cluster before access can be granted.
- To join a cluster, both users and servers must authenticate and receive certificates.
- The Teleport auth service is the CA of the cluster, which issues certificates

>  for both the users and servers with all supported protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 for both users and servers with all supported protocols.
```

This model prevents honeypot attacks and eliminates the issue of trust on first
use. This also allows users to enumerate all servers and other resources that
are currently online.

Teleport clusters can be configured to trust each other. This allows users
from one organization to access designated servers inside of another
organization's cloud or on-premise environment.

## User Experience

Teleport users of [Teleport Desktop Access](https://goteleport.com/desktop-access/) simply
use a web browser to access Windows hosts (RDP in the browser). 

Teleport users of SSH, Kubernetes, and other command line-based clients, must
authenticate first by executing the `tsh login` command. This command opens a
web browser to authenticate and exits upon successful authentication. This configures
users' CLI environment with short-lived certificates for access.

> After that, users will be able to access their SSH servers, Windows servers, Kubernetes clusters, web applications, or databases. Teleport is backward compliant with existing client tools, so users can continue to use client tools including `ssh`, `psql`, `mysql`, `kubectl`, and others as usual:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that, users will be able to access their SSH servers, Windows servers, Kubernetes clusters, web applications, Windows desktops or databases. Teleport is backward compliant with existing client tools, so users can continue to use client tools including `ssh`, `psql`, `mysql`, `kubectl`, and others as usual:
```

Teleport proxy serves the login screen on `https://proxy.example.com:3080`
where users are asked for their username, password, and a 2nd factor. If a 3rd

> party identity provider such as Github is used, the proxy forwards the user to Github

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
party identity provider such as GitHub is used, the proxy forwards the user to GitHub
```

The Teleport Auth service maintains the audit log of everything happening
inside the environment. The audit log consists of two components:

> - **The event log:** Well-documented JSON records of security

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **The audit log:** Well-documented JSON records of security
```

 events. Examples of such events include login attempts, file transfers, code
 execution, filesystem changes, or network activity.

> - **The recorded sessions:** Recording of interactive sessions to SSH, RDP, Database, and kubectl commands. The recorded sessions can be replayed for audit purposes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **The recorded sessions:** Recording of interactive sessions to SSH, RDP and kubectl commands. The recorded sessions can be replayed for audit purposes.
```
